While finding and cleaning data is an important
first step in data analysis, a concept can be lost if you are not able to organize and
represent the findings effectively to your audience. In this video, you will learn how to represent
your findings by focusing on specific elements to create a successful data findings report. After the data has been collected, cleaned,
and organized the work of interpretation begins. You are now able to obtain a complete view
of the data and hopefully, answer the questions that were formed before starting the analysis. Now, you typically begin to compose a findings
report that explains what was learned. Depending on the stakeholders and how they
receive the information, your report could vary in form. This could include a paper style report, a
slideshow presentation, or maybe even both. The findings report is a crucial part of data
analysis, as it conveys what was discovered. When beginning this process, the collected
data and information may seem a little overwhelming. The best way to get through this block is
to begin by creating an outline. By completing an outline, you can then get
a complete picture and begin to write in a precise but simple manner. While there are many different formats for
creating a data-driven presentation, we have created a simple outline that is easy to follow
yet effective. When creating your outline always remember
to structure it towards your audience and create a presentation that is appropriate
for your situation. You first begin with your cover page. This beginning section will have the title
of your presentation, your name, and then the date. The next section in your outline will be an
executive summary and then the table of contents. The table of contents will contain the sections
and subsections of your report in order to give your audience an overview of the contents. This also enables readers to go directly to
a specific section that may be more important to them. Continue your presentation with the introduction,
methodology, results, discussion, conclusion, and finally the appendix. Please note the depth and length for each
element may vary depending on the audience and format of report. The first step in creating your report is
properly creating an executive summary. This summary will briefly explain the details
of the project and should be considered a stand-alone document. This information is taken from the main points
of your report and while it is acceptable to repeat information, no new information
is presented. The next section, after the table of contents,
is the introduction. The introduction explains the nature of the
analysis, states the problem, and gives the questions that were to be answered by performing
the analysis. The next section is methodology. Methodology explains the data sources that
were used in the analysis and outlines the plan for the collected data. For example, was the cluster or regression
method used to analyze the data? Next, we have the results section. This section goes into the detail of the data
collection, how it was organized, and how it was analyzed. This portion would also contain the charts
and graphs that would substantiate the results and call attention to the more complex or
crucial findings. By providing this interpretation of data,
you are able to give a detailed explanation to the audience and convey how it relates to the
problem that was stated in the introduction. Next is the discussion of the report findings
and implications. For this section you would begin to engage
the audience with a discussion of your implications that were drawn from the research. For example, let’s say you were conducting
research for top programming languages for college graduates. Would you find they need to learn multiple
languages to remain competitive in the job market, or would one language always reign
supreme? We have now reached the conclusion of the
report findings. This final section should reiterate the problem
given in the introduction and gives an overall summary of the findings. It would also state the outcome of the analysis
and if any other steps would be taken in the future. Lastly, we have the appendix. This section would contain information that
really didn’t fit in the main body of the report, but you deemed it was still important
enough to include. This type of information could include locations
where the raw data was collected or other details such as resources, acknowledgements
or references. In this video, we learned about the important
elements in creating a successful data findings report. In the next video, we will learn the best
practices when presenting your findings.